Child Protection Companion

Updated 2013

©Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health

Present during the examination was [name of the child] e.g. John Smith, his mother, [name] e.g. Patricia Smith, and his Social Worker [name] e.g. Davy Jones.

stepfather [name] e.g. Andrew Smith and his half-sister [name] e.g. Lucy Smith [DOB] 01/01/2010 remained in the waiting area. [Name] e.g. Staff nurse Susan Black chaperoned the examination.
Details of the assessment

The assessment was carried out at [place] e.g.  on [date] e.g. 19th January 2013 at [time] e.g. commencing at 13.45 hrs and finishing at 15.00 hrs

Consent for the examination

Written consent for the examination, photography and sharing of the report with Agencies [names] e.g. Social Care and the Police was obtained from [Mother/Father/Local Authority/Other], who has parental responsibility.

Presenting History (include all recorded information)
Possible sources referred to could include:

Verbal report from allocated social worker

Verbal report from parent/carer/child 

Medical notes 

Red Book 

X ray reports 

Summary information could include:

Summary information from accompanying social worker - describe as reported to you.

bruising to his eye and cheek two days ago [insert date]. Mrs Short had asked John what had happened and he is alleged to have said that his mother had hit him when he broke a plate. Mrs Short contacted Social Care and John was spoken to at school by Davy Jones but did not repeat this allegation.

examination [insert date], who reported that she had been playing catch with John and had thrown a tennis ball toward him and had hit him 

stepfather and baby sister were reported to be in another room at the time.

Summary information from parent/carer if primary witness

include the questions

E.g. 

else saw what happened 

She said 

Direct report from the child:

Child Protection Companion

Updated 2013

©Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health

E.g. John was subdued and did not respond when I asked him what happened.

E.g. I asked John what happened

Medical History

(Remember: Do not use medical jargon - Non-medical people will be the primary readership. If used please include in parenthesis following a non-medical explanation. )

Use the Red Book and health records if information regarding medical attendances, immunisations and growth pattern are relevant.

Symptom History

E.g. John is reported to be a healthy child with no symptoms on direct inquiry, no known allergies and is not on any medication.

Birth History (for younger children)

with no complications. Hewas bottle fed and weaned at four months .He has not yet received his 12 month vaccination or his pre school booster .His mother said she had never received any appointments.

Past medical history

E.g. John has had no significant illnesses or admissions to hospital.

John has attended A&E on three occasions [insert dates and reasons]

Other relevant family/social information

E.g. John lives with his mother, Patricia Smith, his stepfather Andrew Smith and his half sibling, Lucy Smith. Patricia and Andrew are unemployed. John has no contact with his natural father, Wayne Hunter. Davy Jones, social worker, reported that Patricia and Wayne separated following significant domestic violence when John was a baby. Davy Jones also said that Woodall Primary School have reported that both Patricia and Andrew have appeared late to collect John from school and on several occasions ( document] have behaved aggressively and smelt of alcohol.

Child Protection Companion

Updated 2013

©Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health

On direct questioning Patricia denied any alcohol, substance use or domestic violence but reported that both she and Andrew smoke. Thefamily have two Rottweiler dogs. The family live in a two bedroom council house that is reported as damp.

Davy Jones reported that there were concerns re the state of the home when he visited as there were dog faeces on the floor, no carpets, two broken windows upstairs and John was sleeping on a soiled mattress on the floor of the living room.

Developmental assessment/ school progress

speech. He receives Speech Therapy at school. His mother also reported the Health visitor had referred John to the Community eye clinic for a squint and was awaiting an appointment. The 

A report from Woodall Primary School given to Davy Jones has identified that John is making slow but steady progress. He is reported to be a quiet child but can be easily frustrated on account of his speech delay. He tends to play along side his peers rather than mixing and can at times be aggressive to other children.

Patricia Smith reported that John is boisterous at home and does not like his sister, often stealing her toys.    

Examination

Who was present for theexamination?

E.g.  

Black .

Child Protection Companion

Updated 2013

©Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health

E.g. John was subdued throughout the assessment gave no eye contact and responded to questions with a nod. He had grubby clothes, active head lice, dirty hands and feet.

E.g. John was appropriately /dressed, clean and tidy.

Provide growth parameters

Height

[height] cm

[centile]

Weight

[weight] kg

[centile]

Head circumference
[OFC] cm

[centile] (under 1 year olds)

BMIif overweight

Injuries and explanation given for each injury (If no explanation given please document this)

Remember to document all injuries on body maps and list bruises including the explanation

A series of five horizontal, parallel, linear, petechial bruises ( fine pinpoint bruises due to broken tiny blood vessels ) each measuring 5cm x 0.1 cm , and each 1cm apart from the other, present on the outer aspect of the rightcheek extending from below the right eye 

A healed scar measuring 1.2cm x 0.2cm was present on the right forehead. Mother said this was sustained by a head injury three years ago when he fell off a slide at the park .

A linear scratchmark 2cm below the left shoulder blade. Mother did not know how this happened.

Describe thesystemsexamination

E.g.

John had a right sided convergent squint ( his right eyewas turning inwards ) and his teeth had a number of dental caries . 

E.g. General physical examination including ear nose and throat ( ENT), cardiovascular, respiratory, neurological and abdominal examinations were otherwise normal.

Developmental assessment

Growing Skills ( SGS ) is a recognised tool used toassess achild's development across nine key areas ] 

The assessment revealed John has delayed expressive speech development.

Summary and Opinion

[Summarise the assessment and give an opinion regarding any concerns and the cause of the injuries providinga rationale for having reached a particular conclusion]

E.g. I saw John Smith (DOB 26/10/2008 ) on 19th January 2013 following a referral from Davy 

th January 2013. John was accompanied by his mother, Patricia Smith and Social Worker, Davy Jones for the assessment. The examination was chaperoned by Staff Nurse, Susan Black. Written consent for the assessment was obtained from Patricia Smith.

John has alleged to his school teacher, Mrs Alice Short that his mother hit him on the cheek. 

Child Protection Companion

Updated 2013

©Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health

injury to his cheek and eye occurred when she threw a tennis ball which hit him in the eye, during play. 

On examination John had a series of five horizontal, parallel, linear, petechial bruises ( fine pinpoint bruises due to broken tiny blood vessels) present on the outer aspect of the rightcheek extending from below the right eye to the jaw ( numbered 1 in the report) .

an outstretched hand and consistent with the history given by John to his teacher and myself. The history that his mother gave of the accountwas not compatible with the injuries .  

Referencethe evidencebase (where available)

E.g. 
Abusive bruises are often located away from bony prominences and are found predominantly over softtissue areas such as the cheeks ( Maguire S, Mann MK, Sibert J, Kemp A. Are there patterns of bruising in childhood which are diagnostic or suggestive of abuse? Archives of Disease in Childhood 2005 ;90 :182-6) .Petechial haemorrhages in association with bruising are a strong predictor of abusive injury ( Nayak K ,Spencer N,Shenoy M, Rubithon J, Coad N, Logan S . How useful is the presence of petechiae in distinguishing non-accidental from accidental injury ? Child Abuse & Neglect 2006 ;30 ( 5 ):549-55 ).

The forehead scar ( numbered 2 in the report) is compatible with the history given. The linear  

useful to explore the source of the injury further with John.

Additional information

three appointments for his squint ( John is at risk of losing the vision in his eye if his squint is not treated) , his active head lice, grubby appearance, moderate dental decay and his delayed 

require further investigation.

I assessed John as having adequate growth and an expressive speech delay . 

Immediate Action ( please highlight thepeople responsible for each action)

E.g .

I arranged for John to have blood tests to exclude a clotting disorder . 

Photographs were taken of the injuries by the medical illustration department.

Followuparrangements andany actions/recommendations

appointment was handed to his mother and Social worker .

Child Protection Companion

Updated 2013

©Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health

John requires re-referral for his squint to the ophthalmologist and a referral to a dentist which I have arranged.

Copies ofreportto be sent to

[List] e.g. 

Allocated Social Worker


[name]

-coordinator
[name]

General Practitioner

[name]

Health Visitor

[name]

NamedDoctor/Nurse for ChildProtection

[name]

Other

[name]

Parents

[name]