Full Text Extracted from PDF:
---
- 
1 
- 
  SAMPLE 
( All names and details provided in this sample are fictitious. 

Some fields have been deliberately left blank.)

MEDICAL REPORT

Full name of patient: 
Mr Tan Ah Kow

NRIC/FIN/Passport no. of patient: 
S 1111111X

Age of patient: 
55 years old

Full name of doctor: 
Tan Ah Moi

NRIC/FIN/Passport no. of doctor: 
S 2222222Z

MCR no. of doctor: 
333 333

Hospital / Clinic name and address: 
1 Blackacre Hospital, Singapore 01 010101

[To set out details]

Doctor - patient relationship: 
Please state if you have been seeing the patient regularly over a period of time (if so, please state when you first started seeing the patient and how often you see the patient) or if you saw the patient specifically for this mental capacity assessment only.

I have been the doctor in charge of Mr Tan Ah Kow since November 2010.  I have seen Mr Tan regularly since then, on average once or twice a year. For purposes of this medical report, I re-examined Mr Tan on 20 June 2015.

Please also state the source of the information (e.g. from medical records, from the patient, from the applicant etc.).

Mr Tan Ah Kow was accompanied by his son, Mr Tan Ah Beng, for the examination. Mr Tan is a 55-year-old man, who is divorced, and unemployed. Mr Tan is currently living with his son, Ah Beng. Mr Tan Ah Beng informed me that Mr Tan Ah Kow used to work as a cleaner.

Mr Tan Ah Kow has a history of medical conditions. He has had hypertension and hyperlipidemia since 1990 and suffered several strokes in 2005. He subsequently developed heart problems (cardiomyopathy), cardiac failure and chronic renal disease and was treated in ABC Hospital.

He was last admitted to the ABC Hospital on 1 April 2010 till 15 April 2010, during which he was diagnosed to have suffered from a stroke. This was confirmed by CT and MRI brain scans.

There after, he was transferred to XYZ Hospital for stroke rehabiliation on 15 April 2010. After that, Mr Tan was referred to Blackacre Hospital for follow-up treatment from November 2010. The clinical impression was that he was manifesting behavioral and psychological symptoms secondary to Dementia.

The clinical impression was that he was manifesting behavioral and psychological symptoms secondary to Dementia.

I was informed by Mr Tan Ah Beng that Mr Tan is at present incontinent, and is unable to bathe or use the toilet on his own. He is, however, able to feed himself.

I have observed a gradual deterioration in his cognitive ability and physical state over the years.

Findings from physical examination / mental state examination:

Language, tone of voice etc. relevant to your assessment, the interactions you had with the patient/ the tests you administered/ the questions you posed, and the date you examined the patient.

Mr Tan was brought to the clinic in a wheel chair. His mood was euthymic (i.e. normal, non-depressed and reasonably positive mood) and he did not have any psychotic symptoms.

Orientation to time, place and person:

With regard to his orientation to time, place and person, he was unable to tell that he was in a hospital clinic but identified his son and was able to tell his own name and the name of his son. After being told he was in a hospital clinic, he identified me as a doctor, when asked. However, he could not remember my name, although I have been treating him for the last 5 years. He was able to tell correctly how he arrived at the clinic. However, when asked some moments later where he was, he said he did not know.

He said that it was 10 February (actual date 20 June) and it was a Wednesday (actual day, Monday). He appeared to be just guessing as to what date and day it was. After being told what the day and date were, he forgot a few moments later after being asked again. He could not answer when asked what year it was. When asked what time it was, he said that it was 5 pm in the afternoon (actual time, 3 pm). He was not able to tell the time from looking at a watch.

Basic information:

He gave his age as 50 years old (actually 55 years) and could not answer when asked when his birthday was.